iCTF 2017 was March 3 (Friday and Saturday) and 4th this year. It was... interesting.

During the competition I solved two challenges on live infrastructure - time_machine and turing_award - as well as pokemon local only. That said, a lot of the competition had a ton of problems. the game started over an hour late, due to "challenges not working together", then when the academic game ended the servers went down for over an hour with a complete reset of infrastructure. At some point there was another chunk of down time, and the game effectively died over an hour early when the servers went down again.

Despite all the reliability problems, I thought a number of the challenges were pretty fun. All the ones I looked at were interesting ideas, although they felt a little odd in terms of difficulty. Examples:

 * In Turing\_award, the difficulty was that there was one massive functio that parsed commands and reacted to them inline, with a bunch of red herrings. In particular there was a god\_mode you could trigger that would print out all the answers... but redacting the flags out of them. Instead, there was just a trivial buffer overflow in how they read in commands in the first place you could exploit to read out an arbitrary answer.

 * In Time\_Machine, the difficulty was in decrypting functions. IDA did spectactularly poorly at this, but Binary Ninja was actually extremely good at it. A similar situation, though: the "intended" bug was a format string to print out a loaded password and get it out. There was, however, an arbitrary write if you set up a bunch of requirements first, including triggering a SIGFPE and pulling out the current time. Using this would then get you arbitrary code execution trivially, since most of the binary was mapped wrx.

 * Finally, in pokemon, the difficulty was in writing a bot to get you to an exploitable game state. In order to exploit the challenge, I needed to get 6 rare candies, fight at least 5 wild pokemon, buy 2 different sets of items from the store, catch a fighting pokemon, and finally I could throw the exploit: teach it strength to enable swapping an item index and amove index. There was also a lot of code to look through: I spent a ton of time trying to get an exploit to just print the flag out, since it seems like that was the intended method (there's functionality to open a file and read it's contents), but at least with the technique I was using I couldn't get the derefs to line up right for it. Eventually I just gave up and got a full shell, since that was easier for me.

In all, iCTF was a little disappointing, but worth playing. I liked the challenges, but the frequent downtime was frustrating. The scoring inconsistencies made that worse, as did the communcation issues: they didn't put up an IRC until shortly before the competition, and didn't use it for major announcements, instead preferring a google group for notifications. They also made a number of decisions that hurt teams pretty badly: moving infrastructure in the middle of the night meant that if you weren't up then your throwing would stop entirely. At least one team (217) seemed to get hit hard by that, and dropped significantly because of it, and due to how scoring was set up that was ground almost impossible to recover.
